---
title: "I Had a Riot in Seattle: Vive la Résistance "
date: 1999-12-2
---

The downtown area was under curfew again last night. Although the bus driver said nothing about possible complications, I got off at a stop where I caught the alternate round-a-bout route home the night before in order to be safe. Passing through the black side of Capitol Hill (which is without protesters or police), even this bus would not go along it's normal route, which I didn't understand because it didn't go through downtown. So I got off further away from home than I would have liked, and walked down the hill to my area. I finally got to Broadway, the commercial street, and wiped my nose. The fog was thick, and it difficult to see through it. I hadn't realized I was catching a cold. My nose kept on running, but I was nearly home. A few people ran by with malt liquor bottles and angry talk, but the street seemed pretty quiet. Suddenly a loud explosion blew up right next to me, and my whole face began oozing a mixture of snot, sweat, and tears. I realized that I had just stumbled into the buffer between an armored police unit and a crowd of protesters - the former distributing a generous supply of tear gas and flash bombs to the latter. The police kep on tear gassing me and sending explosives around me and soon enough I was the only one around for a few blocks, but still they didn't stop. I could hardly see through my glazed eyes and the gas enveloping the street, but I ran towards the crowd and stood a little behind them while I recuperated. There were a few people yelling and dragging trash cans and mailboxes into the street in order to form some sort of futile barricade against the onslaught of the police, but for the most part, people were just watching the cops and scurrying away as the got closer and closer. Some cheezy guys who watched old movies and like Les Miserables started running up and down the street yelling "If you're with the Resistance, regroup!". The police were obviously trying to intimidate the crowd by fanning out across the street and trotting in full armor towards us - there seemed to be about 50 of them. The effect was very well done, given that the street was hazed in a mixture of Seattle fog, gas, and smoke, and all one could see were their silhouettes. Periodically the police would stop at an intersection, send over a few canisters of gas with a few bombs mixed in for color, and then start their trot again. There was at least one gun shot (no doubt a rubber pellet), but it was aimed at the ground. The crowd was very angry, and after a few intervals of running towards and away from the cops in a test of their conviction, it was obvious that the stand-off may have started to quell a more violent crowd, but by the time I arrived, most of the protesters, with a few clear exceptions, were actually residents of the area who just wanted to gaze in awe and mutter somethings about the police stopping bombing the hell out of their neighborhood. A few folks really stood up to the occassion and began screaming their heads off about "Everyone here has a duty to call 911 and the news and tell them what's going on here!!" and "I called 911, and they hung up on me!... hey hung up on me! [little reaction from the crowd] ... this is America!.... Look what's happening to our neighborhood!!" and "Up in that apartment [pointing to some imaginary apartment building] there's a two year old girl breathing in this gas!! [turning to the cops] what are you doing?!!! We live here!! A two year old girl is breathing this gas!!! My name is **\_ \_** and I live at **\_\_\_**!! What are you doing?" Soon enough, a sneak attack was launched against the most high-pitched of these protesters and plentiful streams of pepper spray were directed towards their faces. The most pious of these sufferers then retreated to the crowd, got down upon their knees in some state of epileptic divine intervention, spread out their arms like the baby Jesus, and asked for other folk to pour water over their burning faces. I then realized that another armored unit, also dressed in camouflage with the latest anti-riot gear, was coming down a another street attempting to sandwich us in. Everyone started running for a safer position, and when the second group arrived, the first group called in an armored vehicle and a bus to carry arrested people away in. I, being an innocent bystander by chance involved in some sort of surreal party decided to take advantage of the moment and have a chat with the police in order to get a feeling for their sense of occassion (plus there were a few cute women in the crowd who would no doubt be impressed). So I waited for them to arrive while the others fled, and started asking questions in a rational tone of the nearest cop with his armored exoskeleton. There batons seemed to be made of wood or, given that this was the west coast, it could have been some sort of recycled material. Their gas masks had two round filters in the mouth area, and when they talked I could hear a muffled noise from that direction, but I had no idea what they were saying. Their armour was probably of the regular bulletproof material. I succeeded in reaching the human under the mask when, after my insistance that I had no idea what they were saying, the one who must have been the commander took off his mask and started explaining that if everybody would just go inside everything would be alright. Meanwhile, helicopters were circling overhead shining spotlights around the area as the armored vehicle was standing idle in front of us, and I started to feel tired and dehydrated, so I took the man's advice and made my way home. For a while afterwards, the neighborhood was quiet, but at around 11:00, the explosions and circling helicopters began again.
